# The Ladder of Evidence: Get More Value From Your Customer Interviews and Product Experiments

Originally published: March 8, 2017 by [Teresa Torres](https://www.producttalk.org/author/teresa/) | Last updated: September 16, 2024

![Continuous Discovery Habits book cover](https://www.producttalk.org/nitropack_static/DMQOfKcnMHdQNVRigsYYjOuRawguQXPa/assets/images/optimized/rev-7bad3d9/www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/book-email-signature.png)**Have you heard?** My new book [_Continuous Discovery Habits_](https://amzn.to/3hGkNYT) is now available. Get the product trio's guide to a structured and sustainable approach to continuous discovery.

One of the best signs of an effective product team is a regular cadence of customer interviews and product experiments.

But it’s not enough to simply check the box on these activities; we need to make sure that we do them effectively.

Without a strong background in research methods, it’s hard to know how you are doing. I’ve developed a simple framework to help teams evaluate the effectiveness of their methods. It’s called the Ladder of Evidence and I explain it in the video below.

Can’t see the video? [Click here](https://youtu.be/TF0EzrKINqg).

Watched the video and want to learn more? [See these related articles](https://www.producttalk.org/2017/03/ladder-of-evidence/#related-articles).

## Full Transcript

[![Take 10: The Ladder of Evidence by Teresa Torres from ProductTalk.org](https://www.producttalk.org/nitropack_static/DMQOfKcnMHdQNVRigsYYjOuRawguQXPa/assets/images/optimized/rev-7bad3d9/www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.001.jpeg)](https://www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.001.jpeg)

The Ladder of Evidence will help you get more value out of your customer interviews and your product experiments.

Hi Everyone, I’m Teresa Torres with Product Talk and I want to take ten minutes to walk you through the Ladder of Evidence. Many of us have learned that focus groups and surveys are not the best tools for figuring out what to build, but do you know why? The Ladder of Evidence will tell us. It also helps us get more value out of our [customer interviews](https://www.producttalk.org/2022/12/customer-interviews/) and our [product experiments](https://www.producttalk.org/hypothesis-testing/). Let’s take a look.

[![Visual depiction of the Ladder of Evidence. A detailed description is included in the copy below.](https://www.producttalk.org/nitropack_static/DMQOfKcnMHdQNVRigsYYjOuRawguQXPa/assets/images/optimized/rev-7bad3d9/www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.002.jpeg)](https://www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.002.jpeg)

The more effort you are willing to put into climbing the Ladder of Evidence, the more value you’ll get out of what you learn.

When we want to learn something, we tend to ask about it directly. We ask questions like, “Would you use this feature?” or “Would you pay for this service?” The problem with these types of questions is that [we aren’t very good at speculating ](https://www.producttalk.org/2016/03/customer-interview-questions/)about our future behavior. The answers to these types of questions aren’t reliable. It’s easy for me to say I’ll go to the gym next week. That doesn’t mean I will go to the gym next week. It’s important when asking customers for feedback that we do our best to collect reliable feedback. The Ladder of Evidence is going to help us do just that.

You can see here on the left that as we climb the ladder, the time and effort to collect the feedback goes up, but so does the value of what we learn. This is a delicate balance. We want to learn as much as we can, while moving fast, and continuously shipping value to our customers. We don’t want our engineers sitting around while we conduct perfect research, but we also don’t want to build the wrong functionality because we got unreliable feedback. Instead, we want to climb as high up the ladder as we can, given the time constraints in which we have to work.

> You don’t need to do perfect research, but you do need to collect reliable feedback. – [Tweet This](http://ctt.ec/U312W)

Focus groups and surveys are often used to ask people what they might do in the future. This isn’t the only way to use these tools, but it’s the most common, and it’s why they have a bad reputation. You can see that asking people about what they would do is the lowest rung on the ladder. It’s easy to do, but it doesn’t lead to valuable feedback.

> Asking people what they would do is easy to do, but doesn’t lead to reliable feedback. – [Tweet This](http://ctt.ec/PZDOi)

Instead, we want to climb higher. The next rung is to [ask people about what they’ve done in the past](https://www.producttalk.org/2014/08/ask-about-the-past-rather-than-the-future/). Our past behavior is a better indicator of our future behavior than our speculation about our future behavior. In other words, I’m more likely to go the gym next week if I went to the gym last week than if I’ve never been to the gym but think I’ll go next week.

But we can do even better. If you are going to ask about my past behavior, you might as well climb one more rung and ask me for specific stories about my past behavior. Here’s why: If you ask me if I work out regularly (a question about my past behavior), I will say yes. If you then ask me what I do, I would say yoga, CrossFit, and running. You might also ask how often I work out. Again, I have quick answers. I do yoga twice a week and CrossFit three times a week. But all you are doing is collecting facts. Insights are rarely generated from simple facts.

Rather than asking me for facts, ask me for specific stories about my workouts. Stories convey context like where the workouts happen, with whom, the emotion associated with the workout (did I love it, was it a grind), how I felt beforehand (was it hard for me to go, was I excited to go), how I felt afterwards (was I glad I went, did I regret it), and so much more.

> Ask for specific stories about the past to generate insights. – [Tweet This](http://ctt.ec/gIb9y)

Here’s an example: Yesterday, I went to yoga. At 11:30am, I was wrapping up my last coaching call. It ran a little long and I had to rush out the door. Because I was in a rush, I forgot my water bottle. Halfway there I remembered that I had a 1:30pm phone call and that I should have brought my phone just in case class went long. I laughed at my own busyness as I raced to get to yoga on time. As soon as I walked into the yoga studio, I relaxed. [Jill, my favorite instructor](http://jillknouseyoga.com/), was smiling at the front of the room. Michael, my brother-in-law, had saved a space for me. I sat down on my mat, took a deep breath and was ready to sink into yoga. It was a hard class. I’ve been dealing with a foot injury and it was hard to stay present while attending to an injury. I got frustrated a few times but just kept coming back to my breath. At the end, I was mentally and physically exhausted, but I felt great. I walked home, calm, quiet, and smiling. I laughed at the difference an hour of yoga makes.

It took me less than three minutes to tell this story. And it’s packed with so much rich context. If you were designing a product or service for me, you learned so much more than the quick facts that I rattled off earlier. There’s so much to explore here. The role yoga plays during my work day, the people that I see there, the mental and physical benefits, the scurry out the door, the amazing feeling at the end. There is so much context, emotion, and richness that you aren’t likely to forget this story.

And it gets even better. Because this is a specific story about the past, it’s much more reliable than the factual answers I gave earlier. If you asked me why I go to yoga, I would probably say because I care about my fitness, but if you look at this story, I go to yoga for many reasons where fitness is only one of them. Others include: it’s a break during my workday, it makes me feel great, I see friends and family there, it relaxes me, it’s a challenge. There’s so much more to work with.

Asking people for specific stories about the past is one of the richest ways to generate insights about which opportunities to go after and which solutions might deliver on those opportunities.

But no matter how good you get at collecting specific stories, you still have to test those insights. And that brings us to the top two rungs of our ladder.

Too often, when we are ready to test a solution, we put it in front of people and ask, “What do you think?” This is the wrong question to ask. Again, we want to stay away from speculation and look for action. Instead, we want to simulate an experience and prompt them to take action.

The key is to try to simulate the experience your customer would have if your product or service was real. This can be challenging, but it’s worth the effort. You don’t want to learn after you build it that people like it, but won’t use it. We want to discover whether or not they will use it as early in the process as possible.

> Evaluate solutions by simulating an experience and then measuring action. – [Tweet This](http://ctt.ec/Vcb3o)

If based on the stories I collected, I learn that people view yoga as a good break during their work day, I might look to offer lunchtime yoga programs to big companies. To test this idea, I don’t want to ask people if they would go to lunchtime yoga at their office. This is an easy question to say yes to, but it’s pure speculation. Instead, I want to simulate the experience. I might start by offering one lunchtime yoga class at a company and measure how many people come. If I’m worried about attendance over time, I might offer lunchtime yoga for a couple of weeks, before evaluating the results.

Of course, I won’t know for sure if this program will work until I actually offer it (the top rung of the ladder). But the closer I can simulate the experience without doing all the work to make it scalable or sustainable, the more I’ll learn about my idea.

You’ll notice that the top two rungs each have two options. We’ve already talked about the options on the right. The options on the left are for when you are building a product or service that is similar to a competitor’s product. In this case, you can use existing solutions to test your idea. Instead of simulating an experience, you can ask a user to show you what they do using your competitor’s product. And instead of waiting until your product or service is live, you can observe them during a real-life experience using a competitor’s product.

Here are the key takeaways from the ladder of evidence:

1. Avoid speculation.
2. Ask for specific stories about the past to generate insights.
3. Look for evidence of action to evaluate solutions.

[![Let's keep the conversation going.](https://www.producttalk.org/nitropack_static/DMQOfKcnMHdQNVRigsYYjOuRawguQXPa/assets/images/optimized/rev-7bad3d9/www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.003.jpeg)](https://www.producttalk.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/1-Take-10-The-Ladder-of-Evidence.003.jpeg)

I’d love to hear your thoughts or feedback on the Ladder of Evidence. Leave a comment below, reach out on Twitter, or send me an email.

[]()Thanks for your time. If you have questions or comments about The Ladder of Evidence please reach out at ProductTalk.org or on Twitter. Until next time, keep embracing your doubt and questioning your assumptions.


hi everyone I'm Teresa Taurus with
product talk and I want to take ten
minutes to walk you through a concept
called the ladder of evidence many of us
have learned that focus groups and
surveys are not the best tools for
figuring out what to build but do you
know why the ladder of evidence will
help us understand why it also helps us
get more value out of our customer
interviews and our product experiments
let's take a look we want to learn
something we tend to ask about it
directly we ask questions like would you
use this feature or would you pay for
this service the problem with these
types of questions is that we're not
very good at speculating about our
future behavior the answers to these
questions aren't very reliable it's easy
for me to say I'll go to the gym next
week but that doesn't mean I'll actually
go to the gym next week it's important
when asking customers for feedback that
we do our best to collect a reliable
feedback the letter of evidence is going
to help us do just that you can see here
on the left that as we climb the ladder
the time and effort to collect the
feedback goes up but so does the value
of what we can learn this is a delicate
balance we want to learn as much as we
can while moving fast and continuously
shipping value to our customers we don't
want our engineers sitting around while
we conduct perfect to research but we
also don't want to build the wrong
functionality because we got unreliable
feedback instead we want to climb as
high up the ladder as we can given the
time constraints in which we have to
work focus groups and surveys are often
used to ask people what they might do in
the future this isn't the only way to
use these tools but it's the most common
and it's why they have a bad reputation
you can see that asking people about
what they would do is the lowest rung on
the ladder it's easy to do but it
doesn't lead to valuable feedback
instead we want to climb higher the next
rung is to ask people about what
have done in the past our past behavior
is a better indicator of our future
behavior that our speculation about what
our future behavior might be in other
words I'm more likely to go to the gym
next week if I went to the gym last week
then if I merely think I'm going to go
to the gym next week but we can do even
better if you're going to ask about my
past behavior you might have will climb
one more rung and asked me for specific
stories about what I've done in the past
here's why if you ask me if I work out
regularly a question about my past
behavior I will say yes if then if you
then ask me what I do I would say I do
yoga I do CrossFit I run you might also
ask how often I work out again
I have quick answers do you go get twice
a week and CrossFit three times a week
and I occasionally train for races but
all you're doing is collecting facts
insights are rarely generated from
simple facts rather than asking me for
facts ask me for specific stories about
my workouts stories convey context like
where the workouts happen with whom the
emotion associated with the workout did
I love it was it a grind how I left
beforehand was it hard for me to go was
I excited to go how I felt afterwards
was I glad I went
did I regret it and so much more here's
an example yesterday I went to yoga at
11:30 I was wrapping up my last coaching
call it ran a little long and I had to
rush out the door because I was late
I forgot my water bottle halfway to yoga
I remembered that I had a 1:30 phone
call and that I should have brought my
phone just in case class went long I
laughed at my own busyness as I raced to
get to yoga on time as soon as I walk
into the yoga studio I relaxed chill my
favorite instructor was smiling at the
front of the room Michael my
brother-in-law had saved a space for me
i sat down on my mat took a deep breath
and was ready to sink into yoga it was a
hard class I've been dealing with a foot
injury
it's hard to stay present while
attending to an injury I got frustrated
a few times but just kept coming back to
my breath at the end I was mentally and
physically exhausted but I felt great I
walked home calm quiet and smiling I
laughed the difference an hour of yoga
mix it took me about three minutes to
tell this story and it's packed with so
much rich context if you were designing
a product or service for me you learned
so much more than the quick facts that I
rattled off earlier there's so much to
explore here the role yoga plays during
my workday the people that I see there
the mental and physical benefits the
scurry out the door the amazing feeling
at the end there's so much context
emotion and richness that you likely you
aren't likely to forget this story and
it gets even better
because this is a specific story about
the past it's much more reliable than
the factual answers I gave earlier if
you ask me why I go to yoga I would
probably say because I care about my
fitness but if you look at this story I
go to yoga for many reasons where
fitness is only one of them others
include it's a break during my workday
it makes me feel great I see friends and
family there it relaxes me it's a
challenge there's so much more to work
with asking people for specific stories
about the past is one of the richest
ways to generate insights about which
opportunities to go after and which
solutions might deliver on those
opportunities but no matter how good you
get at collecting specific stories you
still have to test those insights and
that brings us to the top two rungs of
our ladder too often when we're ready to
test a solution we put it in front of
people and ask what do you think this is
the wrong question to ask again we want
to stay away from speculation and look
for action instead we want to simulate
an experience
and prompt them to take action the key
is to try to simulate the experience
your customer would have if your product
or service was real this can be
challenging it's but it's worth the
effort
you don't want to learn after you build
it that people like it but won't use it
we want to discover whether or not then
we'll use it and early in the process is
possible for example it's based on the
stories I collected I learned that
people look at yoga as a good break
during the work day I might look to
offer lunchtime yoga programs to big
companies to test this idea I don't want
to ask people if they would go to
lunchtime yoga at their office this is
an easy question to say yes to but it's
pure speculation instead I want to
simulate the experience I might start by
offering one lunchtime yoga class at a
company and measure how many people come
if I'm worried about attendance over
time I might offer lunchtime yoga for a
couple of weeks before evaluating the
results of course I won't know for sure
if this program will work until I
actually offer it the top rung of the
ladder but the closer I can simulate the
experience without doing all the work to
make it scalable or sustainable the more
I'll learn about my ideas you'll notice
that the top two rungs each have two
options we've already talked about the
options on the right the options on the
left are for when you are building a
product or service that is similar to a
competitor's product in this case you
can use existing solutions to test your
idea instead of simulating an experience
you can ask a user to show you what they
do using your competitor's product
instead of waiting until your product or
service is live you can observe them
during a real-life experience using a
competitor's product here are the key
takeaways from the ladder of evidence
one try to avoid speculations
don't ask people what they would do to
ask for specific stories about the past
this is the richest way to generate
insights about your custom
earth-three look for evidence of action
to evaluate your solutions the key here
is to focus on simulating the experience
and getting people to take action rather
than asking them what they would do
thanks for your time if you have
questions or comments about the ladder
of evidence please reach out at product
org or on Twitter until next time keep
embracing your doubt and questioning
your assumptions

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l7-5x0ra2tc